power: device: Add wakeup source API (#36673)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/reference/power_management/index.rst

Checks if any device is busy. The API returns 0 if no device in the system is busy.

Wakeup capability
-----------------

Some devices are capable of waking the system up from a sleep state.
When a device has such capability, applications can enable or disable
this feature on a device dynamically using
:c:func:`pm_device_wakeup_enable`.

This property can be set on device declaring the property ``wakeup-source`` in
the device node in devicetree. For example, this devicetree fragment sets the

> ``gpio`` device as a "wakeup" source:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``gpio0`` device as a "wakeup" source:
```

.. code-block:: devicetree

		gpio0: gpio@40022000 {
			compatible = "ti,cc13xx-cc26xx-gpio";
			reg = <0x40022000 0x400>;
			interrupts = <0 0>;
			status = "disabled";
			label = "GPIO_0";
			gpio-controller;
			wakeup-source;
			#gpio-cells = <2>;
		};

By default, "wakeup" capable devices are not enabled
during the device initialization. Applications can enable this

> functionality later calling :c:func:`pm_device_wakeup_enable`.

Reviewer 2: This is confusing to me as an outside reader. It kind of sounds like you're saying the device will not be initialized. I don't know what "enabling" a device "during the device initialization" means except for initializing it. What am I missing here? Is there some way to make it clearer?

Not a blocking comment, but it would be nice to get some clarification here.

Author: that makes sense. I've read it again and it is indeed confuse.

Will change to;
```
... capable devices do not have this functionality enabled during the device initialization....
```

.. note::

>    This property is ``only`` used by the system power management to identify

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This property is **only** used by the system power management to identify
```

   devices that should not be suspended.

>    It is responsability of the application to do any additional configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   It is responsability of the driver or the application to do any additional configuration
```

Checks if any device is busy. The API returns 0 if no device in the system is busy.

Wakeup capability
-----------------

> Some devices are capable of wake the system up from a sleep state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some devices are capable of waking the system up from a sleep state.
```

Such devices have the bit :c:macro:`PM_DEVICE_ATOMIC_FLAGS_WS_CAPABLE_BIT` set

> in :c:member:`pm_device.atomic_flags`. When a device is "wakeup" capable, applications

Reviewer: These are implementation details that should be hidden from usage guidelines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such devices have the bit :c:macro:`PM_DEVICE_ATOMIC_FLAGS_WS_CAPABLE_BIT` set
in :c:member:`pm_device.atomic_flags`. When a device has such capability, applications
```

can enable or disable this feature on a device dynamically using
:c:func:`pm_device_wakeup_enable`.

This property can be set on device declaring the property ``wakeup-source`` in

> the device node in devicetree.  For example, this devicetree fragment sets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the device node in devicetree. For example, this devicetree fragment sets
```

> ``gpiol@40022000`` as "wakeup" capable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the ``gpio0`` device as a wakeup source:
```

.. code-block:: devicetree

		gpio0: gpio@40022000 {
			compatible = "ti,cc13xx-cc26xx-gpio";
			reg = <0x40022000 0x400>;
			interrupts = <0 0>;
			status = "disabled";
			label = "GPIO_0";
			gpio-controller;
			wakeup-source;
			#gpio-cells = <2>;
		};

> 

Reviewer: Considering that wakeup-sources are enabled by default, I don't think it is a good idea to place the flag in soc dts files, so I think:

- They need to be manually enabled, or
- The application sets the flag if needed, that is:
```
&gpio0 {
    wakeup-source;
};
```

Reviewer 3: On my side, I'd say this is a good thing to be able to identify devices that are "wakeup source" capable in device tree.
Then, I'd suggest to disable them by default: treat them as other devices unless required by application.

By default, all devices that are "wakeup" capable are enabled during the device
initialization and will be able to wake up the system. This can be disabled
calling :c:func:`pm_device_wakeup_enable` with ``false``.

.. note::

   This property is ``only`` used by the system power management to identify
   devices that should not be suspended.
   It is responsability of the application to do any additional configuration
   required by the device to support it.

> 

Reviewer: It would be nive to group wakeup API into a Doxygen group and list it here.
